> [!warning] Reorganizing the Vault
> If you wish to reorganize folders like, say, sorting magic items by category instead of rarity, your backlinks should be fine, but the automatic templates settings from the Templater module might get messed up. There is guidance in the Load Bearing Folders section below on how to fix that.
> 
### Backgrounds, Classes, Feats, and Species
These three folders include all the basic player options you'd need for most of your character building. I went ahead and renamed the Paladin's Channel Divinity to [[Channel Oath]] to limit the amount of duplicate file names and because I just think BG3 was smart to do this and WotC is stupid for not updating it. I get that the Amulet of the Devout gets a bit wordier, but for ease of use it just makes so much more sense to call it Channel Oath. Not entirely sure what designer insisted on keeping it, but quite frankly I think they're objectively incorrect for doing so and have done it the best and correct way in this vault instead.

I have also included a [[Custom Background]] and [[Custom Species]] of my own creation using the design of the ones that appeared in *Tasha's Cauldron of Everything* with a new 2024 coat of paint. Background is pretty easy since 2024 has a pretty rigid design. I normally restrict it to just the Origin feats in the PHB because it would feel weird, for instance, to have a Custom Background using one of the faction feats from *Heroes of Faerun* in my opinion, but that is going to be a table preference. For Species, since the 2014 Custom Race from Tasha's was based on the same logic as the Variant Human, I used the 2024 Human as my baseline for it, combining the two.
### Equipment
This folder is, quite literally, your one stop *shop* for any gear you might need. The subfolders help quickly separate the items into their various categories for easier navigation. I took some liberties with the cost of things on specifically instances like Ammunition where the base item is sold in bundles. Since magic items are Rarity + Base Cost for these types of items, I did the same. Rarity halved due to being consumable and then adding the base cost of that item once halved and this gets you the same amount of that magical ammunition as you'd get for a normal batch of the ammunition. It's also entirely fine to interpret, say, *[[Ammunition of Slaying]]* as being the Rarity Cost = one piece of the ammunition though, so update items accordingly if you prefer that approach.
### Lore
Deities, Factions, and Locations, oh my! (Plus whatever else you want to add here such as Calendars, NPCs, etc.)
### Rules
This folder is where you'll go for any rules questions. It acts like the Rules Glossary at the end of the *Player's Handbook*, but also includes important things from the *Dungeon Master's Guide* such as Environmental Effects. You shouldn't have to ever edit or change anything in this folder, it's mostly just a backlink glossary so I can quickly put a rule in brackets and link to it in the text of other pages.

The "Homebrew Systems" folder is where you can put anything like the Mystic Arts *Hexploration* (regional travel) or *Arcane Forge* (magic item crafting) rules.
### Spells
This folder has the spells categorized by level. The main folder note has the full Spellcasting rules in it.
### Stat Blocks
This folder is the vault's *Monster Manual* and it's set up so that new files created within it will automatically populate with the [[Creature]] template for quick homebrewing. If there's a portion in the template that doesn't matter for a creature, simply delete it. I just wanted to make sure the template included everything by default so you don't have to question how the markdown looks.

There is a subfolder inside for Spell Summons to separate those stat blocks from the rest of them. Animals have a subfolder to quickly find [[Wild Shape]] and *[[Polymorph]]* options, there is a Homebrew folder to toss all your other creations, and a blank Mystic Arts folder where you can plop all of your Mystic Monster .md files.
### Unsorted
This is the default folder where new documents go and where you can toss documents that you aren't quite sure where you want to put them yet.
### Help Desk
This is the one stop shop for general vault information. The pages in this section are:
- [[z. Help Desk]] is the primary area for help and information. It's a folder note, so you wont see it on the file list. To get back to it, you'll need to click the name of the folder.
- [[Vault Organization]] will be sort of a table of contents that lets you know how exactly I have the vault organized.
- [[Expanding the Vault]] will be where information on what work you'd have to do to add non SRD and 3rd Party content.
- [[Tips and Tricks]] will be a collection of useful formatting information or other helpful things relating to using Obsidian.
- [[Useful Code]] will be a one stop shop for copy/pasteable code. Make sure to do that in Source Mode to ensure it transfers properly. Feel free to use it as a code testing playground as well.
- [[Theme Testing]] will be your one stop shop for when you're making Appearance and Style Settings changes. Has a lot of the main content that will be affected.
- [[Acknowledgements]] will be where I list anyone I would like to thank for motivation, tips, etc. during my creation of this vault. I'll also list any useful resources here as well.
### Load Bearing Folders
This is the home of the Attachments and Templates folders. Feel free to ignore the Auto Tag folder as it only exists to facilitate Templater automatically providing tagged notes in certain folders, such as the [[Rule Tag]] template being the default for the Rules folder. Lastly, in the Attachments folder you can ignore the Tutorial Images folder. That's just where I'm storing any screenshots like the resolution example in [[z. Help Desk]] or the obsidian logo in [[Theme Testing]].

Here are some notes on templates:
- [[Armor]], [[Equipment]], [[Magic Item]], [[Poison]], [[Tool]], and [[Weapon]] all have a "Name (# GP)" format to mimic how those items appear on DnD Beyond. DDB uses a system where the gold cost of the item links to the item itself and I like the visual of it being a different color. You can see an example in the *Player's Handbook* in the Tool section. This is achieved by using a pipe | to change the name of a backlink. Using Armor as an example, you'll notice that it has "Armor|(# GP)" in brackets. This tells Obsidian that Armor is the page being linked to, but "(# GP)" is the text that should appear. Just change this to backlink the page to itself and then put a gold cost or Varies depending on what it is. So, for instance, if you notice on [[Plate Armor]], this link is "Plate Armor|(1,500 GP)" to achieve this effect. It's mostly aesthetic and not at all necessary, you can easily just put the gold cost next to the name and it'll show up orange like the name itself.
- The [[Creature]] template includes every bit of markdown you could possibly need. For many creatures this is unnecessary so you can just delete those sections. Likewise, you'll notice Traits are both in the infobox and the normal body of text. You only need one or the other, it's just preference as to which one you think looks better. All stat blocks I provide will just put the traits in the main text, but feel free to copy the markdown from this template and move those traits over to the infobox if you wish to use that format. You also do not need to use the checkboxes to track resource usage, I just figured since it's possible to do I'd include the markdown for it.

> [!warning] Templater Settings
> If you want to use a different folder as your templates folder, set that new folder in Settings > Core plugins > Templates and then in Settings > Community plugins > Templater. Drag and drop the files into the new folder and then fix all the file pathing in the Templater settings to make sure it's all working okay. You can also swap which folder certain templates generate in / add more folders in the Templater settings as well. You can do the same for the Attachments folder, though that setting is under Settings > Options > Files and links. Attachments don't need to be in that folder to work or be linked. Setting the folder just means any new images you generate in the vault, such as pasting them in, will default to going in that folder.