> [!warning|no-title]
> If you did not get a pop up asking you for plugin permission when you opened this vault and all you see in the file explorer is "D&D 5e 2024 Rules" then you opened the wrong folder as vault. Windows 11's unzipper puts it in a folder based on the name of the .zip file, whereas WinRar makes the top level folder the "D&D 5e 2024 Rules" folder and doesn't have that issue.  Open that 2024 Rules folder as the vault and it should ask you for permissions along with having all the correct folders like z. Help Desk, z. Load Bearing Folders, etc. in the file browser.
# Welcome
This vault was created by Nax, the Raven as a tool to assist DMs using the 2024 rules for Dungeons and Dragons 5th Edition. Every piece of official content in this vault can be found for free on D&D Beyond and is part of the SRD for the 2024 rules. Any published content not found in the SRD PDF will not be found in this vault by default, though I will be offering plenty of tools to add in that content yourself with relative ease, such as premade files ready to go for you to port content into without needing to do the tedious task of making the files (WIP). 

Certain things will be named differently, such as the *[[Mysterious Deck]]* being the *Deck of Many Things* in the actual DMG. This along with name removals from spells like *[[Hideous Laughter]]* was done to make sure we're copying from the SRD only. If you'd like to swap them to their *Player's Handbook* / *Dungeon Master's Guide* variants, feel free to rename them.

While no artwork is in the SRD, I can absolutely let you know that you don't have to own a creature, item, etc. on D&D Beyond to access and download its art. Heck you don't even have to be logged in to gain access to that treasure trove of images. Put it in the attachments folder (organized into subfolders as you see fit) and you'll be able to insert it into any page by referencing it with double brackets and putting a ! in front so it displays automatically on the page.

I have included the SRD PDF [[SRD_CC_v5.2.1.pdf|here]]. I separated it from the other attachments and put it in the main vault folder so that if you would like to move it elsewhere it is easy to find without being nested in a bunch of folders. Moving it outside the vault will break the "here" backlink above.
##### Legal Disclaimer
This work includes material from the System Reference Document 5.2.1 (“SRD 5.2.1”) by Wizards of the Coast LLC, available at https://www.dndbeyond.com/srd. The SRD 5.2.1 is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, available at https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ legalcode. 
## Getting Started
There are a few useful files in this Help Desk folder.
- [[Vault Organization]] will be sort of a table of contents that lets you know how exactly I have the vault organized.
- [[Expanding the Vault]] will be where information on what work you'd have to do to add non SRD and 3rd Party content.
- [[Tips and Tricks]] will be a collection of useful formatting information or other helpful things relating to using Obsidian.
- [[Useful Code]] will be a one stop shop for copy/pasteable code. Make sure to do that in Source Mode to ensure it transfers properly. Feel free to use it as a code testing playground as well.
- [[Theme Testing]] will be your one stop shop for when you're making Appearance and Style Settings changes. Has a lot of the main content that will be affected.
- [[Acknowledgements]] will be where I list anyone I would like to thank for motivation, tips, etc. during my creation of this vault. I'll also list any useful resources here as well.

> [!warning] Resolution and Zoom
> I edited this vault on a 2560 x 1440 resolution monitor with font size 16 and zoom at 100%. You can get close to this on a more standard 1920 x 1080 resolution monitor, but there wasn't really a font/zoom setting I found on my laptop (which is 1080p) that exactly matched the ratio of text I get on my PC. Just go to your Appearance settings and mess around with font size and zoom until you find a decent one where the content isn't super zoomed in, but isn't so small you need a magnifying glass. I've included a screenshot of what this page looks like on my set up with the monsters folder open so you can gauge based on where the text lines up if you do want to science it out and get it as close as possible.
> [[Nax's Font and Zoom Example.png]]
## Plugin Information
While at first I was going to make this with no community plugins to make it as friendly as possible to users of all levels of complexity, I just found that the base application was not suiting my needs very well. That being said, I will keep the list fairly small as I do not want a massive learning curve to using the vault. Here are the base plugins the vault comes with:
#### ITS Theme
Technically a theme, but as it adds a bunch of extra callout functionality like wiki style info boxes, columns, replicating the sourcebook banner sidebars, etc. I am counting it as a plugin. I've also got the two CSS Snippets needed to show the custom fonts and icons already in the vault and enabled. If you read the [documentation](https://publish.obsidian.md/slrvb-docs/ITS+Theme/ITS+Theme) and see them mentioned, I've already got you covered.
#### Style Settings 
This will let you customize the look of the ITS Theme. By default, I have this set to the Pathfinder theme, though there are plenty to explore. Just go to your Settings > StyleSettings and click the ITS Theme Settings dropdown. From there, the Alternate Color Schemes dropdown opens up a menu where you can click the box for basic color variations on the default ITS theme. 

The dropdown that will default to saying Pathfinder can be changed to a D&D theme made by the creator of the ITS Theme, a more official WotC looking D&D theme, or a Pathfinder Remastered theme which just shifts the reds to greens. Select the blank option in that box to return to the default theme or if you want to use one of the other color variations. 

Lastly, the "Accent Color" theme will color the app based on whatever you have set in your base Obsidian Appearance settings. If the default ITS theme, RPG themes, or alternate colors of the default theme don't suit your needs, try the Accent Color theme. Just a warning that swapping it to the default Obsidian purple makes some of the headers way too saturated, so I'd definitely go with a more desaturated purple if you want to go that route.
#### Folder Notes
A must have for organizing this vault with how many things like magic items need to have a preamble generic page and then individual pages inside. It also allows me to have one big equipment page that looks like you're reading from the site or book with folders for the individual items inside that folder without having that main page getting lost amongst the other files and folders. You'll know a folder has a Folder Note because it'll have a red line. If you wish to open the folder, make sure to click on the area to the right of the name, not the name itself. Clicking the name will bring up the note, clicking the open space opens the folder.

If you'd like to create folder notes of your own, simply right click on a folder and under the "Folder Note Commands" you have the option to either create a basic markdown page (the standard note type) or a canvas page as the folder note for that folder. Renaming a file within a Folder to have an identical name to the folder will also turn that note into a Folder Note. For instance, this file was originally titled "Vault Information" and I renamed it to "z. Help Desk" so that it would become a folder note for this folder.
#### Templater
To make this as homebrew friendly as possible while also retaining my sanity when making the vault and having to make the same type of file over and over again within a given folder, this plugin allows us to take the default template settings one step further. I have designated "Templates" inside the Load Bearing Folders as the template folder meaning any files created inside it can be targeted by the "Insert Template" command. I've also done the honors of setting the default keybind for that to "Alt+T" so that if you want to add a template to a blank note you've already created, it's quick and simple.

Templater also opens up the functionality of assigning a specific template type to a specific folder. Simply go to the Templater settings and you'll see an area underneath the "Enable Folder Templates" option. The left box is where you set the folder and the right box is where you set the specific template you want notes to default to when generated in that folder. Right clicking a folder and hitting "New Note" will generate with whatever template you assigned to it. If you want to test out how it works, you can view what folders already have templates assigned to them in the Templater settings. Templates themselves can be viewed and edited in the aforementioned "Templates" Folder.
#### Supercharged Links
This is mostly for aesthetic reasons tbh. It allows me to get that D&D Beyond feel where condition links have a specific color, item links have a specific color, etc. so that things look nicer. I'll already have this set up so that all you have to do is add tags to a page to change the link color. If you want to know what tags have special colors or change a color because it's hard to read for one reason or another, go to Settings > Community plugins > Style Settings > Supercharged Links. It should open up and show you the full list of tags available along with the color I have chosen for that tag. From there, each section opens up to reveal more settings such as link color, font weight, background color, etc.

There are also settings to limit where these colors show up. For instance, if you don't want the colors to show in the File Browser, you can go to Settings > Community plugins > Supercharged Links and turn off the "Enable in File Browser" option. Between using the plugins settings and knowing that the colors are found in the settings for Style Settings, this one shouldn't be too hard to figure out. Realistically once you've gotten a look down that you like, you don't ever need to touch the settings again except to add new link formatting types.

To tag something put a # tagname anywhere in the document (I prefer the end) without the space. I've already set up templates for auto tagging if you create files within certain 04) Backlink Glossary folders. Useful to know for if you want to create and customize the look of your own tags, though. The tags I have set by default to match D&D Beyond's colors are:
- **action** is for things listed as an Actions such as [[Dash]], [[Disengage]], and [[Dodge]]
- **condition** is for things listed as a Condition such as [[Deafened]], [[Prone]], and [[Unconscious]]
- **creature** is for stat blocks like the [[Aboleth]].
- **equipment** is for adventuring gear, armor, weapons, tools, and any other non-magical gear, an example of a tool being the [[Disguise Kit]]. If you want to make the various categories of equipment show up as their own color, just add more tags in the Supercharged Links and then customize their color in Style Settings.
- **lore** is for people, places, locations, etc. Certain stat blocks mention them, such as the [[Balor]]'s *Death Throes* Trait referencing the [[Abyss]]. If you want to make this more granular so that your NPC names show up as a different color than your location names, follow the same steps I mentioned for equipment.
- **magicitem** is for magic items such as a *[[Spell Scroll]]*. If you want it to be italicized like WotC does, you'll still have to add the asterisk before and after the brackets since it does not appear Supercharged Links lets you format that in Style Settings. If you want different colors for rarity tags, follow the same steps I mentioned for equipment.
- **rule** is for any rules that don't have a specific custom color, such as areas of effect like [[Sphere]] and [[Cylinder]], hazards such as [[Falling]] and [[Burning]], and general rules like [[Advantage]] and [[Disadvantage]].
- **sense** is for Special Senses such as [[Rules/Senses/Darkvision|Darkvision]].
- **skill** is for things listed as a skill such as [[Insight]], [[Performance]], and [[Sleight of Hand]].
- **spell** is for spells such as *[[Acid Splash]]*. Just like with magic items, you'll still need to manually put the asterisks to italicize them like WotC does. If you want different colors for spell schools or levels, follow the same steps I mentioned for equipment.
- **weaponproperty** is for any properties realistically, I just specifically saw the color used for things like [[Finesse]], [[Two-Handed]], [[Sap]], and [[Vex]].

If you want a file to have multiple tags for search purposes, Supercharged Links lets you order the tags so that certain ones will take priority and be the style that a multi tagged page will use.
> [!warning|no-title]
> I copied a lot of these files over from my personal vault and did my best to edit them back to their official versions, but there may be some lingering homebrew mechanics and world lore here and there. When in doubt, just verify with the SRD. If you're seeing a proper noun you don't recognize, it's probably my world's version of something official. If you see anything referring to the Dazed, Decaying, Diseased, Enraged, Frozen, or Slowed conditions this is one example of this.
## Vault Updates
**Most Recent Update:** 03/27/2026
Welcome to SRD Vault 2.0! I went ahead and revamped the entire file structure so it's best to not import this into the old SRD Vault. Scrap this for parts, scrap the old for parts to drag in here, whatever you see fit. I decided that I was only going to really include the files that would have backlinks and what not. If you'd like one large document that reads as various sections in the SRD like I had in the old version, go right ahead, the SRD is in here for you to do just that. The only document even close to that is [[Spells]] since it has the full Spellcasting rules.

As with the prior vault, I was fairly frugal with the backlinks and documents, so I combined where I could and left out things I saw as superfluous / not really things you'd ever need a backlink for. If you want to add more granularity, knock yourself out. This is simply a starting point to get that initial leg work done for you. Also, rather than worry too much a bout "how to use" for the Templates, I figure I'll just state here that it *should* be obvious. Use what you need, delete what you don't, some things are only in there so that you have something easy to copy/paste. 

If you notice any errors in the actual content itself (keeping in mind that DnD Beyond has tons of errors so the SRD PDF trumps the free rules on DnD Beyond. DnD Beyond is WHY Mind Spike snuck into the Cantrips folder a while back after all and also an issue with Telekinesis having the wording of Teleportation Circle in the last update) the best place to report said errors is the Mystic Arts Discord in the designated Obsidian channel.

The only things really unfinished at this point are a good chunk of the magic items. Most of them except for variants such as the various +1, +2, or +3 armor and weapons have the files already, the information just needs put in. You should be able to look at what I've already finished to update them on your own. We'll see if I have the motivation to go do a pass over them and properly finish them myself.

Happy Gaming!
## Importing Into an Existing Vault
If you have a personal vault that you're already using you can use the two methods mentioned above for updating this vault for that as well. Just be aware that unless you copy my .obsidian folder over and let it overwrite yours, you may not have the right plugins and certain settings enabled. Links might break because you don't have your Template settings set up to work with this vault's file pathing. Some common things that could break or not work are pretty simple to fix though and just require knowing where those settings are. Here are some possible issues you're likely to have if you just copy the files over to your personal vault.

- **(Insert Feature) Isn't Working**
	- First troubleshooting step to all of this is ensuring that you have every plugin listed above installed and enabled. There are some additions and settings changes I have done, though very minor, but simply having the plugins should clear up most issues. If you want to ensure everything is working how I intended, copy this vault's .obsidian folder over and let it overwrite anything. The main exception to this would be for snippets and plugins. Don't overwrite your appearance or plugins jsons otherwise your vault will shut off every plugin and snippet that isn't activated in this vault.
- **Oh No, My Links are Broken / It Can't Find a Template**
	- If this happens, just go to Settings > Core plugins > Templates and check what your overall default Template folder is set to. If you'd like to keep using that folder, simply move the templates from 05) Homebrew Alley into that folder, otherwise change it to the 05) Homebrew Alley folder. You'll then have to go into Settings > Community plugins > Templater and make sure that Enable folder templates setting is on. From there, you can 'Add new folder template' and the left box is your folder, the right box is your template. If you want a specific folder to always create a particular template type, such as new files created in the 03) Monsters folder automatically generating the Monster template, this is where you'd set that.
- **My Fonts Don't Look the Same**
	- By default, the ITS Theme with Style Settings will not have the Pathfinder/D&D fonts. There are CSS Snippets that enable that functionality. In this vault's .obsidian folder there will be a Snippets folder. Simply drag it over to your .obsidian folder and then go to Settings > Options > Appearance to enable the snippets.